---
title: "[Notes]: Spanner"
date: 2021-10-24T00:00:00-08:00
description: "Notes on Google Spanner/Cloud Spanner"
tags: [notes, database, spanner]
logoText: "./gcloud-spanner --sql='SELECT title, contents FROM nerdondon-notes'"
---

## Prelude

Notes on Spanner internals referencing publicly available literature e.g. Alex Petrov's Database
Internals book and the Spanner paper presented at OSDI.

## Notes

- A Spanner _zone_ is "the unit of administrative deployment" and is composed of a _zonemaster_,
  _spanservers_, and per-zone _location proxies_

  - The _zonemaster_ assigns data to _spanservers_

  - _spanservers_ are the indiudual units of Spanner that serve data clients.

    - A _spanserver_ is responsible for between 100 and 1000 instances of a data strcuture called a
      tablet

    - A tablet is essentially a bag of key-value mappings

  - _location proxies_ are used by clients to locate the _spanservers_ that contain their data

- _spanservers_ "implement a single Paxos state machine on top of each tablet". The set of replicas
  is called a _Paxos group_

  - The leader in each Paxos group manages 2 additional systems: a lock table and a transaction
    manager. The state of these systems is still replicated by the Paxos group.

    - "The lock table contains the state for two-phase locking: it maps ranges of keys to lock
      states."

    - The transaction manager supports distributed transactions i.e. transactions that span multiple
      Paxos groups.

      - The transaction manager will coordinate with the leaders of the other Paxos groups
        participating in the transaction to perform two-phase commit. One of the participant groups
        will be selected as the _coordinator leader_.

## Useful references

- Alex Petrov - Database Internals - Chapter 13: Distributed Transactions
- [Spanner - Google's Globally-Distributed Database](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/osdi12/osdi12-final-16.pdf)
